How did Voyager actually know where it
was and where it was going? Located on
Voyager's antenna was a device called a
sun sensor. It detected the sun as the
brightest object in space and commanded
Voyager to rotate until it locked onto
it. This would correctly align the X and
Y axes and ensure that Voyager's antenna
was facing Earth. In order to sort out
the roll axis, a star tracker facing 90°
away from the sun sensor would look for
a specific star which had a known level
of brightness. Again, Voyager would
rotate around this axis until it locked
onto this star. But, Voyager couldn't
always rely on these systems. Anytime
Voyager passed by a planet, its sun
sensor would be temporarily blocked.
Likewise, when Voyager rotated to take
pictures of specific targets, both
sensors would no longer be facing their
reference points. And so, to keep track
of how much Voyager had rotated, it had
an onboard gyroscope which could be used
for several hours at a time. Voyager
went on to complete two more gravity
assists around Saturn and Uranus, making
incredible [music] discoveries along the
way.